README.md, before:

# npmgraph

A tool for exploring npm modules and dependencies. Available online at https://npmgraph.js.org/.

**Be sure to check out [the new npmgraph CLI](https://github.com/npmgraph/npmgraph-cli).**

## URL API

`npmgraph` diagrams can be configured using the URL parameters below.

NOTE: With the exception of the `q` (query) parameter, these are **not** search parameters. These parameters are stored in the location _`hash`_, using normal URL query param encoding.

### `q` (search param)

Comma-separated list of module names or URLs.

**Example**: Graph the `send` module (official NPM registry):

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send

### `color` (hash param)

"Colorization" mode (a.k.a "Colorize by..." field in UI). Currently supports the following values:

| `color=...`   | Graph nodes colored by...                                                         |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `moduleType`  | `package.json#type` value                                                         |
| `bus`         | # of maintainers ("bus" = [bus factor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor)) |
| `outdated`    | Degree of `version` outdated-ness                                                 |
| `maintenance` | npms.io score                                                                     |

**Example**: Graph `send`, colorize by module type:

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send#color=moduleType

### `deps` (hash param)

Comma-separated list of the _types_ dependencies to include for modules at the top-level of the graph. (Lower-level modules only ever show `dependencies`).

`dependencies` is always included.

**Example**: Graph `send`, include `devDependencies`:

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send#deps=devDependencies

### `packages` (hash param, **JSON-encoded**)

JSON-encoded array of user-supplied `package.json` contents.

To graph a custom package.json module, provide the package contents here (in the `packages` param), and set the module "name@version" in the `q` param.

**Example**: Graph a custom "my_package@0.0.1" module

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=my_package%400.0.1#packages=%5B%7B%22name%22%3A%22my_package%22%2C%22version%22%3A%220.0.1%22%2C%22dependencies%22%3A%7B%22send%22%3A%220.18.0%22%7D%7D%5D

```js
`https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=my_package#${new URLSearchParams([
  ['packages', JSON.stringify([packageJson])],
]).toString()}`;
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The name provided in `q` must match the `name` in the package.json, at least until [#195](https://github.com/npmgraph/npmgraph/issues/195) is resolved.

### `select` (hash param)

Select a module or category of modules.

Values should have one of the following forms:
| | |
|---|---|
| `exact:<module key>` | Select a specific module |
| `name:<module name>` | Select modules by name, all versions |
| `license:<license string>` | Select modules by license |
| `maintainer:<maintainer name>` | Select modules by maintainer name |

**Example**: Graph `send`, selecting `fresh@0.5.2`

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send@0.18.0#select=exact%3Afresh%400.5.2

### `hide` (hash param)

If defined (e.g. `...#hide`), hides the inspector.

**Example**: Graph `send`, close the inspector

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send@0.18.0#view=closed

### `zoom` (hash param)

Specify zoom mode.

|     |                 |
| --- | --------------- |
| `w` | Fit view width  |
| `h` | Fit view height |

**Example**: Graph `send`, fit view width

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send@0.18.0#zoom=w

## Running locally

`NPMGraph` is built with `parcel`. To run in your local dev environment:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/npmgraph/npmgraph.git
$ cd npmgraph
$ npm install
$ npm start
```

Commit message:

fix: custom package sample code
The JS code for generating a URL for a custom package didn't work for me:

1. it uses `q=my_package` instead of `q=my_package@0.0.1` like the example above it - from experimenting it seems that this prevents it from using the supplied custom packageJson, at least in the case of existing libraries that exist on the npm registry (I'm trying to use this to get a graph for a package _before_ I release a new version)
2. it uses slightly non-intuitive `URLSearchParams` constructor -  I think the way I updated is more readable, with a plain JS object
3. the `q=my_package` part is hard-coded - until  https://github.com/npmgraph/npmgraph/issues/195 is resolve I think it makes sense to provide a JS snippet which does the name and version outputting for you
4. formatting of the code snippet is made slightly more readable (IMO) 

only 1 is a "fix"; 2, 3 and 4 are just niceties.

README.md, after:

# npmgraph

A tool for exploring npm modules and dependencies. Available online at https://npmgraph.js.org/.

**Be sure to check out [the new npmgraph CLI](https://github.com/npmgraph/npmgraph-cli).**

## URL API

`npmgraph` diagrams can be configured using the URL parameters below.

NOTE: With the exception of the `q` (query) parameter, these are **not** search parameters. These parameters are stored in the location _`hash`_, using normal URL query param encoding.

### `q` (search param)

Comma-separated list of module names or URLs.

**Example**: Graph the `send` module (official NPM registry):

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send

### `color` (hash param)

"Colorization" mode (a.k.a "Colorize by..." field in UI). Currently supports the following values:

| `color=...`   | Graph nodes colored by...                                                         |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `moduleType`  | `package.json#type` value                                                         |
| `bus`         | # of maintainers ("bus" = [bus factor](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bus_factor)) |
| `outdated`    | Degree of `version` outdated-ness                                                 |
| `maintenance` | npms.io score                                                                     |

**Example**: Graph `send`, colorize by module type:

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send#color=moduleType

### `deps` (hash param)

Comma-separated list of the _types_ dependencies to include for modules at the top-level of the graph. (Lower-level modules only ever show `dependencies`).

`dependencies` is always included.

**Example**: Graph `send`, include `devDependencies`:

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send#deps=devDependencies

### `packages` (hash param, **JSON-encoded**)

JSON-encoded array of user-supplied `package.json` contents.

To graph a custom package.json module, provide the package contents here (in the `packages` param), and set the module "name@version" in the `q` param.

**Example**: Graph a custom "my_package@0.0.1" module

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=my_package%400.0.1#packages=%5B%7B%22name%22%3A%22my_package%22%2C%22version%22%3A%220.0.1%22%2C%22dependencies%22%3A%7B%22send%22%3A%220.18.0%22%7D%7D%5D

```js
`https://npmgraph.js.org/` +
'?' + new URLSearchParams({ q: `${packageJson.name}@${packageJson.version}` }).toString() +
'#' + new URLSearchParams({ packages: JSON.stringify([packageJson]) }).toString();
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The name provided in `q` must match the `name` and `version` in the package.json, at least until [#195](https://github.com/npmgraph/npmgraph/issues/195) is resolved.

### `select` (hash param)

Select a module or category of modules.

Values should have one of the following forms:
| | |
|---|---|
| `exact:<module key>` | Select a specific module |
| `name:<module name>` | Select modules by name, all versions |
| `license:<license string>` | Select modules by license |
| `maintainer:<maintainer name>` | Select modules by maintainer name |

**Example**: Graph `send`, selecting `fresh@0.5.2`

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send@0.18.0#select=exact%3Afresh%400.5.2

### `hide` (hash param)

If defined (e.g. `...#hide`), hides the inspector.

**Example**: Graph `send`, close the inspector

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send@0.18.0#view=closed

### `zoom` (hash param)

Specify zoom mode.

|     |                 |
| --- | --------------- |
| `w` | Fit view width  |
| `h` | Fit view height |

**Example**: Graph `send`, fit view width

https://npmgraph.js.org/?q=send@0.18.0#zoom=w

## Running locally

`NPMGraph` is built with `parcel`. To run in your local dev environment:

```shell
$ git clone https://github.com/npmgraph/npmgraph.git
$ cd npmgraph
$ npm install
$ npm start
```
